README.md, before:

<img src="https://github.com/cosai-oasis/oasis-open-project/blob/main/artwork/cosai-logo.png" width="150">

<!--[**Note:** This template is provided to give you a good idea about the kind of information you should include in a README.md file as a best practice. You know your project inside-out. Write your readme file for someone who doesn't know anything about it. What do you want people to know about your project who are just coming across it for the first time? OASIS Staff are happy to collaborate with you as well.

Further README inspiration can be found [here](https://www.makeareadme.com/) and [here](https://github.com/hackergrrl/art-of-readme#readme).

You may copy and edit this template as you see fit for your project and your community. You are also welcome to use emojis, graphics or images in your README. This file should be reviewed regularly and kept up-to-date.]-->


## CoSAI Workstream 3: AI Security Risk Governance

This repository is for the work of the CoSAI Workstream 3, AI Risk Governance. CoSAI is an [OASIS Open Project](https://www.oasis-open.org/open-projects/) and an open ecosystem of AI and security experts from industry leading organizations dedicated to sharing best practices for secure AI deployment and collaborating on AI security research and product development. For more information on CoSAI, please visit the [CoSAI website](https://www.coalitionforsecureai.org/) and the [Open Project repository](https://github.com/cosai-oasis/oasis-open-project) which has information governance and the project charter.

### About this workstream
The goal of this workstream is to develop a security-focused risk and controls taxonomy, checklist, and scorecard to guide practitioners in readiness assessments, management, monitoring, and reporting of their AI products, services, and components. Further information can be found [here](https://github.com/cosai-oasis/oasis-open-project/blob/main/WORKSTREAMS.md).

### Workstream Leads
* David Kliemann, IBM
* David LaBianca, Google

<!--## Badges [optional – TBD]

Using badges is optional, but they are a nice way to show some key facts and stats about your project at a glance. There are badges for all kinds of things relating to your repository, e.g. to show the license you're using, the programming language, the number of forks, or a CI badge to show build/test status. Be mindful not to use too many badges. You can use [Shields](http://shields.io/) to add some to your README. Many services also have instructions for adding a badge. Check out the README of the Open Cybersecurity Alliance project [Kestrel](https://github.com/opencybersecurityalliance/kestrel-lang) to see badges in action.

## Description -TBD

* State what problem(s) your project solves.
* Note its development status.
* List the most useful/innovative/noteworthy features.
* Note and briefly describe any key concepts (technical,  philosophical, or both) important to the user’s understanding.
* Link to any supplementary blog posts or project main pages.
* Compare/contrast your project with other, similar projects so the user knows how it is different from those projects.
* Highlight the technical concepts that your project demonstrates or supports. Keep it very brief.
* If available, include screenshots and demo videos.

## Repository Organization (What's Here?) - TBD

You can use this section to give a brief overview of what can be found in this repository, e.g. documentation, meeting minutes, or templates. A good example of this can be found in the README of the [OASIS OpenC2 TC repository](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/openc2-tc-ops/blob/main/README.md).
Please make sure to update it on a regular basis – when new files or folder are added to the repository.-->

## Description

The rapid integration of Artificial Intelligence (AI) into critical organizational processes and infrastructure introduces complex security risks. Proactive security governance and risk management are essential to mitigate these challenges.

Organizations increasing reliance on AI systems amplifies the impact of security breaches, data poisoning, model evasion, adversarial attacks, and system vulnerabilities. Existing security frameworks provide a necessary foundation, but are insufficient for these unique challenges. Therefore, extending traditional frameworks and developing specialized AI security risk governance solutions are crucial.

[CoSAI's Workstream 3: AI Security Risk Governance](https://github.com/cosai-oasis/ws3-ai-risk-governance) will empower organizations to navigate the complexities of AI system security. We will deliver methodologies, critical insights, and tools for proactively identifying, assessing, and mitigating risks in alignment with evolving AI security standards and regulations.

### Key Areas of Focus

* Developing tools and methodologies for AI security risk identification and assessment  
* Extending and developing security risk governance frameworks tailored for AI systems
* Provide guidance and best practices on prioritizing AI security risk mitigation investments
* Collaborating with the broader technical ecosystem to provide strong security risk management guidance for use in the development of security standards, regulation, and best practices

## Contributing 

Please see the [CoSAI Contributing Policy](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for more details.

<!--## Authors and Maintainers

Adds names / GitHub profile links for those who have contributed to this repository. If you have a maintainer's list, link to it here.-->

## Support
For issues or features, please use Github issues. You can also join the workstream mailing list by posting an empty email to [cosai-risk-governance-ws@lists.oasis-open-projects.org ](mailto:cosai-risk-governance-ws+subscribe@lists.oasis-open-projects.org). You can read the mailing list archive [here](https://lists.oasis-open-projects.org/g/cosai-risk-governance-ws/topics).

You can also join us on Slack via [this link](https://join.slack.com/t/cosai-op/shared_invite/zt-2rbgqtolg-GdajCyOiddYtGJ3cSdk1Jg) and introduce yourself in the #ws3-risk-governance channel

## Governance and Licenses

CoSAI and the CoSAI workstream operates under the terms of the [Open Project Rules](https://www.oasis-open.org/policies-guidelines/open-projects-process), the [CoSAI Governance](https://github.com/cosai-oasis/oasis-open-project/blob/main/GOVERNANCE.md) and [Workstream Governance](https://github.com/cosai-oasis/oasis-open-project/blob/main/TSC-WS-GOVERNANCE.md), as well as the following the licenses:
* CC-BY 4.0 for documentation and data contributions; and
*  Apache License v2.0 for source code and models
  
The applicable license will be determined for each repository, as applicable, at the time of its
creation.

Commit message:

adds link to onboarding doc

README.md, after:

<img src="https://github.com/cosai-oasis/oasis-open-project/blob/main/artwork/cosai-logo.png" width="150">

<!--[**Note:** This template is provided to give you a good idea about the kind of information you should include in a README.md file as a best practice. You know your project inside-out. Write your readme file for someone who doesn't know anything about it. What do you want people to know about your project who are just coming across it for the first time? OASIS Staff are happy to collaborate with you as well.

Further README inspiration can be found [here](https://www.makeareadme.com/) and [here](https://github.com/hackergrrl/art-of-readme#readme).

You may copy and edit this template as you see fit for your project and your community. You are also welcome to use emojis, graphics or images in your README. This file should be reviewed regularly and kept up-to-date.]-->


## CoSAI Workstream 3: AI Security Risk Governance

This repository is for the work of the CoSAI Workstream 3, AI Risk Governance. CoSAI is an [OASIS Open Project](https://www.oasis-open.org/open-projects/) and an open ecosystem of AI and security experts from industry leading organizations dedicated to sharing best practices for secure AI deployment and collaborating on AI security research and product development. For more information on CoSAI, please visit the [CoSAI website](https://www.coalitionforsecureai.org/) and the [Open Project repository](https://github.com/cosai-oasis/oasis-open-project) which has information governance and the project charter.

### About this workstream
The goal of this workstream is to develop a security-focused risk and controls taxonomy, checklist, and scorecard to guide practitioners in readiness assessments, management, monitoring, and reporting of their AI products, services, and components. Further information can be found [here](https://github.com/cosai-oasis/oasis-open-project/blob/main/WORKSTREAMS.md).

### Workstream Leads
* David Kliemann, IBM
* David LaBianca, Google

<!--## Badges [optional – TBD]

Using badges is optional, but they are a nice way to show some key facts and stats about your project at a glance. There are badges for all kinds of things relating to your repository, e.g. to show the license you're using, the programming language, the number of forks, or a CI badge to show build/test status. Be mindful not to use too many badges. You can use [Shields](http://shields.io/) to add some to your README. Many services also have instructions for adding a badge. Check out the README of the Open Cybersecurity Alliance project [Kestrel](https://github.com/opencybersecurityalliance/kestrel-lang) to see badges in action.

## Description -TBD

* State what problem(s) your project solves.
* Note its development status.
* List the most useful/innovative/noteworthy features.
* Note and briefly describe any key concepts (technical,  philosophical, or both) important to the user’s understanding.
* Link to any supplementary blog posts or project main pages.
* Compare/contrast your project with other, similar projects so the user knows how it is different from those projects.
* Highlight the technical concepts that your project demonstrates or supports. Keep it very brief.
* If available, include screenshots and demo videos.

## Repository Organization (What's Here?) - TBD

You can use this section to give a brief overview of what can be found in this repository, e.g. documentation, meeting minutes, or templates. A good example of this can be found in the README of the [OASIS OpenC2 TC repository](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/openc2-tc-ops/blob/main/README.md).
Please make sure to update it on a regular basis – when new files or folder are added to the repository.-->

## Description

The rapid integration of Artificial Intelligence (AI) into critical organizational processes and infrastructure introduces complex security risks. Proactive security governance and risk management are essential to mitigate these challenges.

Organizations increasing reliance on AI systems amplifies the impact of security breaches, data poisoning, model evasion, adversarial attacks, and system vulnerabilities. Existing security frameworks provide a necessary foundation, but are insufficient for these unique challenges. Therefore, extending traditional frameworks and developing specialized AI security risk governance solutions are crucial.

[CoSAI's Workstream 3: AI Security Risk Governance](https://github.com/cosai-oasis/ws3-ai-risk-governance) will empower organizations to navigate the complexities of AI system security. We will deliver methodologies, critical insights, and tools for proactively identifying, assessing, and mitigating risks in alignment with evolving AI security standards and regulations.

### Key Areas of Focus

* Developing tools and methodologies for AI security risk identification and assessment  
* Extending and developing security risk governance frameworks tailored for AI systems
* Provide guidance and best practices on prioritizing AI security risk mitigation investments
* Collaborating with the broader technical ecosystem to provide strong security risk management guidance for use in the development of security standards, regulation, and best practices

## Contributing 

Check out our [onboarding guidance for new participants](https://github.com/cosai-oasis/oasis-open-project/blob/main/ONBOARDING.md) and please see the [CoSAI Contributing policy](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for more details.

<!--## Authors and Maintainers

Adds names / GitHub profile links for those who have contributed to this repository. If you have a maintainer's list, link to it here.-->

## Support
For issues or features, please use Github issues. You can also join the workstream mailing list by posting an empty email to [cosai-risk-governance-ws@lists.oasis-open-projects.org ](mailto:cosai-risk-governance-ws+subscribe@lists.oasis-open-projects.org). You can read the mailing list archive [here](https://lists.oasis-open-projects.org/g/cosai-risk-governance-ws/topics).

You can also join us on Slack via [this link](https://join.slack.com/t/cosai-op/shared_invite/zt-2rbgqtolg-GdajCyOiddYtGJ3cSdk1Jg) and introduce yourself in the #ws3-risk-governance channel

## Governance and Licenses

CoSAI and the CoSAI workstream operates under the terms of the [Open Project Rules](https://www.oasis-open.org/policies-guidelines/open-projects-process), the [CoSAI Governance](https://github.com/cosai-oasis/oasis-open-project/blob/main/GOVERNANCE.md) and [Workstream Governance](https://github.com/cosai-oasis/oasis-open-project/blob/main/TSC-WS-GOVERNANCE.md), as well as the following the licenses:
* CC-BY 4.0 for documentation and data contributions; and
*  Apache License v2.0 for source code and models
  
The applicable license will be determined for each repository, as applicable, at the time of its
creation.
